Hey welcome back guys.
In the last lecture we went through the revenue modeling.
So in this lecture we're going to look at the expenses now for the headcount that is not part of the
sales team.
We can pretty much do what we've done before.
Right.
So we have a headcount and the conversation the per person overhead as well as these monthly overheads.
If that's the same everything should look very familiar to you.
Right.
For those parts now the part that's different.
The part that I'm going to go over in this lecture for this case study is going to be the parts that
we did for when we did the single salesperson right.
The salaries the base salaries the performance salaries you know the additional sales overheads basically
everything related to the sales part of it.
First thing though appear for the startup cost.
We are doing exactly the same way this is kind of all of the Before you launch before getting your first
clients and hiring your first sales team.
These were the spends here.
Now all of these assumptions here are actually just pulled from the first person.
The single sales person page here.
So whatever the assumptions you have for a single sales person it's going to apply to the expenses worksheet
and I put them here.
Even though it's over there just because it's easier to see and easier to reference here Pullan the
expense growth and salary growth assumptions This is pulled from the single sales person and I pull
that up to hear the sales growth and the expense growth.
Now the only difference here compared to the single sales person worksheet is that we can't started
in month one because we didn't hire the sales people until the 11th month right.
So we want to start the raises and then expenses for the overhead for the sales team.
When you start hiring because that's when we start counting we're raising it every year after that.
So the formula here basically factors that in it's kicks in when it actually starts right now set at
11 months.
But that's that's actually just really part of the sales team growth here.
You see the sell D 10 is starting in month 11 if we change that that formula over there on the expenses
side for this change.
Okay so that is there now the next part of it is we're going to structure the sales team expenses the
same way we did for the single sales person.
Right.
So here we did the revenues for first and then for the sale for the expenses we did.
Base salary and we did performance salary and then we did sales overhead and then we had the cost of
leads and then from there it was the total expenses.
So here we're going to do the same thing except now we kind of have to treat it like we did in the revenues
we have to look at the cohorts.
So first pull in the sales people count by cohort right.
That way we know how many sales people is within each cohort.
So then once we have the cohort we can start looking at the base value.
Now for the base salaries we don't need to do it by cohort because everybody is getting paid the same
base at that time right.
So theyre getting hired later theyre going to be hired at that base rate at that time.
So for the base salary is just going to be the total headcount times the base salary rate but for the
sales performance salaries that one's a little bit harder.
Now remember the form of salaries when we looked at a single sales person we had a performance draw
schedule right.
That was when they were ramping up and they also had a productivity curve.
Right.
So this is going to apply to each cohort from the month that they joined the team.
So when we do perform salary's then had to first have come up with the basic We remember the productivity
schedule.
So for each show we got to know where each of the months are right when the first month versus second
month is for each cohort once we have that then we put the schedule in there because we need to know
which month is the first month or the second month for each cohort.
But this was already calculated in the revenues sheet so we can just pull it from the revenue side right.
You see the formula I'm just pulling it from the revenue side.
Now once we have a schedule we have the performance salary draw.
Now remember for the salary drop in the first few months it's going to pull from that if the performance
is not passed right because the Zafir performance portion of their salary.
But the first few months they guarantee that amount after that it's completely based on performance.
So for each of the cohorts when they start we're going to choose the higher of the either the draw or
their performance their sales performance.
And then we use that to determine how much of their performance salary they're going to get.
Okay.
So we choose between those two to select for each cohort case as the actual draw.
And then we sum that up and we have the total performance based salary portion of the salary for the
whole team.
So that goes them.
That's why this took longer to do.
Conceptually it's not really that difficult but it's a little bit you know kind of unwieldy with 60
cohorts to do but that's really the hard part.
Once we have that the additional sales overhead and other overhead is the same for each salesperson
right.
So there's no overhead schedule.
So we can do it the same way we treated the base salaries just the overhead rate per month times the
number of sales headcount.
The time is right here.
Now the cost of leads is going to be the net billing.
Okay the actual net billing for that month.
But the annual contract value for that month.
Right.
We need to look at the annual contract value for that month divided by the average contract value.
Okay so if in that month there were you know say 100000 in annual contract value there and then we divide
it by the average contract value 50000.
That means there were two contracts that were converted so busy to customers and then we multiply by
the number of leads needed for each customer and then times the cost per lead.
That's how we get this total cost there.
Okay.
So then we have the cost of leads that kick in once we start having sales.
And finally we have the cost of sales because we have the margin assumption earlier right.
Gross margins of 80 percent.
So we take the gross costs out of the initial sales and then that would net it from the actual Billings
and the other stuff is the same as what we've done before.
So they're not that different.
I'm going to go over them again.
So there you have it.
That's the expense side of it.
The biggest part here is looking at this first portion.
Okay how did I do this portion.
The rest you've seen it before but this part handling it in a way that accounts for each of the cohorts.
Next up we're going to put them together and see what it looks like.